#rock #genre 


Punk rock (also known as simply punk) is a music genre that emerged in the mid-1970s. Rooted in 1960s [[garage rock]], punk bands rejected the perceived excesses of mainstream 1970s [[rock]] music. They typically produced short, fast-paced songs with hard-edged melodies and singing styles, stripped-down instrumentation, and often shouted political, [[anti-establishment]] lyrics. Punk embraces a DIY ethic; many bands self-produce recordings and distribute them through [[independent record labels]].

The term "punk rock" was previously used by American rock critics in the early 1970s to describe the mid-1960s garage bands. Certain late 1960s and early 1970s Detroit acts, such as [[MC5]] and [[Iggy and the Stooges]], and other bands from elsewhere created out-of-the-mainstream music that became highly influential on what was to come. Glam rock in the UK and the New York Dolls from New York have also been cited as key influences. Between 1974 and 1976, when the genre that became known as punk was developing, prominent acts included [[Television]], [[Patti Smith]], and [[the Ramones]] in New York City; [[the Saints]] in Brisbane; and the [[Sex Pistols]], [[the Clash]], and [[the Damned]] in London, and the [[Buzzcocks]] in Manchester. By late 1976, punk had become a major cultural phenomenon in the UK

## Characteristics
The first wave of punk rock was "aggressively modern" and differed from what came before. According to [[Ramones]] drummer [[Tommy Ramone]], "In its initial form, a lot of 1960s stuff was innovative and exciting. Unfortunately, what happens is that people who could not hold a candle to the likes of Hendrix started noodling away. Soon you had endless solos that went nowhere. By 1973, I knew that what was needed was some pure, stripped down, no bullshit rock 'n' roll."

Technical accessibility and a do it yourself (DIY) spirit are prized in punk rock. UK pub rock from 1972 to 1975 contributed to the emergence of punk rock by developing a network of small venues, such as pubs, where non-mainstream bands could play. Pub rock also introduced the idea of [[independent record labels]], such as [[Stiff Records]], which put out basic, low-cost records. Pub rock bands organized their own small venue tours and put out small pressings of their records. In the early days of punk rock, this DIY ethic stood in marked contrast to what those in the scene regarded as the ostentatious musical effects and technological demands of many mainstream rock bands. Musical virtuosity was often looked on with suspicion. According to Holmstrom, punk rock was "rock and roll by people who didn't have very many skills as musicians but still felt the need to express themselves through music". In December 1976, the English [[fanzine]] [[Sideburns]] published a now-famous illustration of three chords, captioned "This is a chord, this is another, this is a third. Now form a band"

British punk rejected contemporary [[mainstream rock]], the broader culture it represented, and their musical predecessors: "No Elvis, Beatles or the Rolling Stones in 1977", declared [[the Clash]] song "1977". 1976, when the punk revolution began in Britain, became a musical and a cultural "Year Zero". As nostalgia was discarded, many in the scene adopted a nihilistic attitude summed up by the [[Sex Pistols]]' slogan "No Future"; in the later words of one observer, amid the unemployment and social unrest in 1977, "punk's nihilistic swagger was the most thrilling thing in England." While "self-imposed alienation" was common among "drunk punks" and "gutter punks", there was always a tension between their nihilistic outlook and the "radical leftist utopianism" of bands such as [[Crass]], who found positive, liberating meaning in the movement. As a Clash associate describes singer [[Joe Strummer]]'s outlook, "Punk rock is meant to be our freedom. We're meant to be able to do what we want to do."

info links: 
https://www.nationalgeographic.co.uk/history-and-civilisation/2022/07/what-was-punk-and-why-did-it-scare-people-so-much
https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/punk
https://www.theguardian.com/music/punk
https://bandcamp.com/tag/punk