#artist #musician #rock #vocalist #composer #guitarist #bassist

Source: [allmusic](https://www.allmusic.com/artist/roger-bunn-mn0001614978/biography)
He somehow managed to play with lots of important people and bands, and at major gigs -- and intersected with the early career of [[David Bowie]], as well as playing a role in the founding of such outfits as [[Roxy Music]] -- but he only ever got known especially well among musicians, rather than to the public.

Bunn was born in 1942, the son of a deceased and highly decorated war hero. By his own account, his childhood -- during which he was mostly separated from his mother -- was lived out either in relative emotional isolation or, at brief moments at annual public ceremonies, in the shadow of his father's war record. By the end of the 1950s, he was enjoying the skiffle boom -- which was represented locally in Norwich by a band called [[the Saints]] -- and also gravitating to the work of the American beat poets and jazz musicians. Bunn had started playing guitar in his teens, and by the end of the decade had taken the lead guitar spot in a group called [[the Bishops]]. In the early '60s, however, he made the switch to playing jazz bass, and was working for Cockney rockabilly icon [[Joe Brown]]. He was back on guitar for a stint with [[Wee Willie Harris]] in Hamburg, and later bounced back to East Anglia and a soul outfit called [[the Bluebottles]], whose members included [[Mike Patto]].

Vocalist, composer, master guitarist, double and electric bass player, and long standing human rights activist Roger Bunn, worked with dance orchestras, [[blues]] bands and [[jazz]] groups, including the original[[ Blue Notes]] from South Africa and [[the Spontaneous Music Ensemble]]. In 1968 [[David Bowie]] recorded Roger's classic "Life is a Circus" and through being careless with his copyright, allowed this early 60s song to fall into the hands of pirates.

Source: [mensch](http://www.mensch.net/rogerbunn/)
Bunn's real love lay with jazz, and not the trad style that was dominant in commercial circles -- he was a serious Charlie Parker devotee. But he found most of his opportunities playing [[rock]] and [[soul]], and [[the Bluebottles]] got gigs with the likes of [[Manfred Mann ]]and [[the Animals]]; working in those musical surroundings, Bunn spent most of what free time he had at [[Ronnie Scott]]'s jazz club. During the mid-'60s, he worked with a wide array of players, including [[Graham Bond]], [[Zoot Money]], and [[Joe Harriott]], and crossed paths with [[Jimi Hendrix]]. By his own account, he also used a massive amount of recreational, often hallucinogenic drugs across the years leading up to the late '60s, which caused a memory lapse on aspects of his life that lasted well into the 1980s. He played with the Ken Stevens dance band and in Marianne Faithfull's backing band, and also lost out to Mick Taylor in a bid to join John Mayall's Bluesbreakers. 

Discography:
[[Piece of Mind (1970)]]